Martinh/ntt cli transfer ownership evm (#618)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: products/token-transfers/native-token-transfers/guides/transfer-ownership.md

---
title: Transfer Ownership
description: Step-by-step guide to transferring ownership of Native Token Transfers on EVM, Solana, and Sui with CLI instructions.
categories: NTT, Transfer
---

# Transfer Ownership

After deploying Native Token Transfers (NTT), you may need to move ownership to a new owner address (e.g., a multisig). This page outlines the process for transferring ownership on EVM, Solana, and Sui.

## EVM

> The [NTT CLI](/docs/products/token-transfers/native-token-transfers/get-started/#install-ntt-cli){target=\_blank} supports transferring ownership on EVM chains. Follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [NTT CLI](/docs/products/token-transfers/native-token-transfers/get-started/#install-ntt-cli){target=\_blank} supports transferring ownership on EVM chains. To transfer ownership on the EVM chains, you can do the following:
```

> 1. Set the private key used to sign the transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the private key used to sign the transaction.
```

    ```bash
    export ETH_PRIVATE_KEY=INSERT_EVM_PRIVATE_KEY
    ```

> 2. Run the `ntt transfer-ownership` command, specifying the chain and destination address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the `ntt transfer-ownership` command, specifying the chain and destination address.
```

    ```bash
    ntt transfer-ownership INSERT_CHAIN --destination INSERT_DESTINATION_ADDRESS
    ```

    You’ll see a confirmation prompt. Type `y` to proceed.

If successful, you will see the following output:

--8<-- 'code/products/native-token-transfers/guides/transfer-ownership/terminal-1.html'

## Solana

Transferring ownership of Wormhole's NTT to a multisig on Solana is a two-step process for safety. This ensures that ownership is not transferred to an address that cannot claim it. Refer to the `transfer_ownership` method in the [NTT Manager Contract](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/native-token-transfers/blob/main/solana/programs/example-native-token-transfers/src/instructions/admin/transfer_ownership.rs#L58){target=\_blank} to initiate the transfer.

1. **Initiate transfer**: Use the `transfer_ownership` method on the NTT Manager contract to set the new owner (the multisig).
2. **Claim ownership**: The multisig must then claim ownership via the `claim_ownership` instruction. If not claimed, the current owner can cancel the transfer.

> 3. **Single-step transfer (Riskier)**: You can also use the `transfer_ownership_one_step_unchecked` method to transfer ownership in a single step, but if the new owner cannot sign, the contract may become locked. Be cautious and ensure the new owner is a Program Derived Address (PDA).

Reviewer: For this step it says to validate the PDA is there a way to do this?  Is there another page that shows this, or is it common knowledge to know how to do? I understand the importance of checking this, but I wouldn't know how. 
This could just be me as well.

Author: It's a common concept when interacting with Solana programs. I just added a link to those docs. Thanks!

> For a practical demonstration of transferring ownership of Wormhole's NTT to a multisig on Solana, visit the [GitHub demo](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/demo-ntt-solana-multisig-tools){target=\_blank} providing scripts and guidance for managing an NTT program using Squads multisig functionality, including ownership transfer procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a practical demonstration of transferring ownership of Wormhole's NTT to a multisig on Solana, visit the [GitHub demo](https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/demo-ntt-solana-multisig-tools), which provides scripts and guidance for managing an NTT program using Squads' multisig functionality, including procedures for ownership transfer.
```

## Sui

> The [Sui CLI](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/getting-started/sui-install){target=\_blank} supports transferring ownership by moving the NTT Manager’s `AdminCap` and `UpgradeCap` to your multisig. Follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Sui CLI](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/getting-started/sui-install){target=\_blank} supports transferring ownership by moving the NTT Manager’s `AdminCap` and `UpgradeCap` to your multisig. You can transfer ownership as follows:
```

> 1. Find out the `AdminCap` and `UpgradeCap` for your NTT manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find out the `AdminCap` and `UpgradeCap` for your NTT manager.
```

    ```bash
    sui client object INSERT_SUI_NTT_MANAGER_ADDRESS --json 2>/dev/null | jq -r '"AdminCap ID: \(.content.fields.admin_cap_id)\nUpgradeCap ID: \(.content.fields.upgrade_cap_id)"'
    ```

> 2. Transfer `AdminCap` object over to a multisig:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Transfer `AdminCap` object over to a multisig.
```

    ```bash
    sui client transfer --to INSERT_MULTISIG_ADDRESS --object-id INSERT_ADMIN_CAP_ID_STEP1
    ```

> 3. Transfer `UpgradeCap` object over to a multisig:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Transfer `UpgradeCap` object over to a multisig.
```

    ```bash
    sui client transfer --to INSERT_MULTISIG_ADDRESS --object-id INSERT_UPGRADE_CAP_ID_STEP1
    ```

> 4. Check the new owner of the `AdminCap` object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Check the new owner of the `AdminCap` object.
```
